release notes for 2.6 (#874)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2022-09-02-release-notes-2.6/index.md

---
title: "Kyma 2.6"
author:
  name: Andreas Thaler PO @Kyma, and Grzegorz Karaluch, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes 
type: release 
releaseTag: "2.6.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-26"
---

> You probably know the song ["Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma chameleon"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JmcA9LIIXWw). Like chameleons, Kyma easily adapts to new surroundings, which you can see in the new release. In 2.6 we introduce a new version of APIRule, and configurable logging. But that's not all! Read on to find out more about the 2.6 release!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You probably know the song ["Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma chameleon"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JmcA9LIIXWw). Like chameleons, Kyma easily adapts to new surroundings, which you can see in the new release. In 2.6 we introduce a new version of APIRule, improved function.kyma-project.io CRD, and configurable logging. But that's not all! Read on to find out more about the 2.6 release!
```

> You probably know the song ["Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma chameleon"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JmcA9LIIXWw). As you can see in the new release, Kyma, like chameleons, easily adapts to new surroundings. In 2.6 we introduce a new version of APIRule, improved function.kyma-project.io CRD, and configurable logging. But that's not all! Read on to find out more about the 2.6 release!

Reviewer 2: This intro is fantastic!

- [Service Mesh](#service-mesh) - Istio Sidecar Injection, Istio 1.14.3

## API Exposure

### Exposing and securing multiple services

This Kyma release comes with the new version of APIRule featuring exposing and securing multiple services. Now it’s possible to define service per rule. Read more about [APIRule CR](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule).

## Observability

### Configurable Logging

With the new [telemetry component](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-04-telemetry-in-kyma/), Kyma 2.6 introduces configurable logging. Now you can configure how logs are processed. Besides pushing all application logs to the in-cluster Loki service, you can integrate your own logging backends with Kyma. Furthermore, you can now define criteria for log collection, parsers, filters, and outputs. 
For more information, see the [migration guide]().

### Eventing Dashboard

This Kyma release comes with a consolidated Grafana dashboard for Eventing called **NATS Delivery**, so you can monitor the published and dispatched events in one, holistic view.

## Serverless

### Improved CRD

> With Kyma 2.6, the new version (v1alpha2) of function.kyma-project.io CRD is available. With this, we improve usability and come one step closer to a stable v1 version.

Reviewer 2: Do we talk about ourselves with "we" or with "Kyma" ?
[Our style guide is against "we"](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-style-and-terminology/#pronouns).

---
title: "Kyma 2.6"
author:

>   name: Grzegorz Karaluch, Technical Writer @Kyma"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: Andreas Thaler PO @Kyma, and Grzegorz Karaluch, Technical Writer @Kyma"
```

tags:
  - release-notes 
type: release 
releaseTag: "2.6.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-26"
---

> Read on to find out exactly what Kyma 2.6 has to offer!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You probably know the song ["Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma Kyma chameleon"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JmcA9LIIXWw). Like chameleons, Kyma easily adapts to new surroundings, which you can see in the new release. In 2.6 we introduce support for Kubernetes 1.23, a new version of APIRule, and configurable logging But that's not all! Read on to find out more about the 2.6 release!
```

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

> - [General](#general) - Support for Kubernetes 1.23

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - [API Exposure](#api-exposure) -  exposing and securing multiple services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API Exposure](#api-exposure) -  Exposing and securing multiple services
```

> You probably know the song ["Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma chameleon"](https://youtu.be/JmcA9LIIXWw?t=44). As you can see with the new release, Kyma, like chameleons, easily adapts to new surroundings. In 2.6 we introduced a new version of APIRule, improved the `function.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) and, provided configurable logging. But that's not all! Read on to find out more about the 2.6 release!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You probably know the song ["Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma, Kyma chameleon"](https://youtu.be/JmcA9LIIXWw?t=44). As you can see with the new release, Kyma, like chameleons, easily adapts to new surroundings. In 2.6 we introduced a new version of APIRule, improved the `function.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD), and provided configurable logging. But that's not all! Read on to find out more about the 2.6 release!
```
Oopsie, a typo. You put the comma after `and`, instead of before.

- [Observability](#observability) - Configurable Logging, Eventing Dashboard
- [Serverless](#serverless) - Improved CRD
- [Service Mesh](#service-mesh) - Istio Sidecar Injection, Istio 1.14.3

## API Exposure

### Exposing and securing multiple services

> This Kyma release comes with new version of APIRule featuring exposing and securing multiple services. Now it’s possible to define service per rule. Read more about APIRule CR [here](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Kyma release comes with the new version of APIRule featuring exposing and securing multiple services. Now it’s possible to define service per rule. Read more about [APIRule CR](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule).
```

> This Kyma release comes with a new version of APIRule, featuring exposing and securing multiple services. Now it’s possible to define a service per rule. Read more about the [APIRule custom resource (CR)](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This Kyma release comes with a new version of APIRule, featuring exposing and securing multiple services. Now it’s possible to define a service per rule. Read more about the [APIRule custom resource (CR)](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.6/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule/).
```
It makes sense to link to the 2.6 documentation instead of latest. If we change something in 2.7, these RNs will refer user to incorrect information.

## Observability

### Configurable Logging

> With the new [telemetry component](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-04-telemetry-in-kyma/), Kyma 2.6 introduces configurable logging – now users can configure how logs are processed. Besides pushing all application logs to the in-cluster Loki service, users can integrate their own logging backends with Kyma. Furthermore, users can now define criteria for log collection, parsers, filters, and outputs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new [telemetry component](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-04-telemetry-in-kyma/), Kyma 2.6 introduces Configurable Logging. Now you can configure how logs are processed. Besides pushing all application logs to the in-cluster Loki service, you can integrate your own logging backends with Kyma. Furthermore, you can now define criteria for log collection, parsers, filters, and outputs. 
```

For more information, see the [migration guide]().

### Eventing Dashboard

> This Kyma release comes with a consolidated Grafana dashboard for Eventing called "NATS Delivery", so you can monitor the published and dispatched events in one, holistic view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Kyma release comes with a consolidated Grafana dashboard for Eventing called **NATS Delivery**, so you can monitor the published and dispatched events in one, holistic view.
```

> With the new [telemetry component](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-04-telemetry-in-kyma/), Kyma 2.6 introduces configurable logging. Now you can configure how logs are processed. Besides pushing all application logs to the in-cluster Loki service, you can integrate your own logging backends with Kyma. Furthermore, you can now define criteria for log collection, parsers, filters, and outputs. 

Reviewer 2: I should have noticed that 🤦‍♀️

## Serverless

### Improved CRD

> With Kyma 2.6, the new version (v1alpha2) of function.kyma-project.io CRD is available. With this we want to improve usability and come one step closer towards a stable v1 version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Kyma 2.6, the new version (v1alpha2) of function.kyma-project.io CRD is available. With this, we improve usability and come one step closer to a stable v1 version.
```

> For more information, see the [migration guide](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.6/migration-guide-2.5-2.6).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **CAUTION:** If you used override values for the logging chart to configure Fluent Bit, you must follow the [migration guide](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.6/migration-guide-2.5-2.6).
```

I was thinking to add at the end "...to avoid breaking changes" or "...to avoid incompatibility", what do you think?

Reviewer: I like "... to avoid incompatibility" :)

Author: sounds good as it is in my opinion

The v1alpha2 changes include:

> 	• More structured information about the function source.  The source sub-object describes either the sources in case of inline function, or Git reference in case of Git functions.  GitRepository CRD will no longer be used to store information about Git sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	• More structured information about the Function source.  The source subobject describes either the sources, in the case of inline Functions, or Git reference in the case of Git Functions. GitRepository CRD will no longer be used to store information about the Git sources.
```

> 	• build-time and run-time resource configuration were moved under a common parent field called `resourceConfiguration`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	• build-time and run-time resource configuration were moved under a common parent field called `resourceConfiguration`.
```

> 	• Experimental support for external Kubernetes resource scalers (I.e via KEDA ScaledObject API) via scale subresource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	• Experimental support for external Kubernetes resource scalers (for example via KEDA ScaledObject API) using scale subresource.
```

> * More structured information about the Function source.  The source subobject describes either the sources, in the case of inline Functions, or Git reference in the case of Git Functions. GitRepository CRD will no longer be used to store information about the Git sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   • The source subobject provides more structured information about the Function source. For Git Functions, source subobject stores the Git reference, replacing the GitRepository CRD.
```

I think we can simplify this whole paragraph a lot.

Reviewer: I kinda like the clear distinction between inline Function and Git Function. Maybe we can drop the first sentence? For example:
`For inline Functions, the Function source subobject describes the sources, and for Git Functions it provides the Git reference. The sources are no longer stored in the GitRepository CRD.`

Reviewer 2: Ah that's a good idea, the first sentence doesn't add much value. I like your suggestion!

With the formatting - I'm constantly bamboozled when it's not a clear-cut case. 
Maybe Maja can advise?

Reviewer: I'm ok with using `parameter` instead of `sub-object`. Since we agree that this is a parameter, [shouldn't it be **bolded**](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-bold-font-for-these-items)?

> The following versions of custom resource definitions are deprecated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following versions of CustomResourceDefintions are deprecated:
```

> * Build-time and run-time resource configuration were moved under a common parent field called `resourceConfiguration`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Build-time and run-time resource configuration were moved under the common parent field called **resourceConfiguration**.
```
- You specify the field by name, so you're talking about a specific field, which calls for the definite article. 
- It's a field name, not its value, so it  should be bolded. See the [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-bold-font-for-these-items) for reference.

> * Experimental support for external Kubernetes resource scalers (for example via KEDA ScaledObject API) using scale subresource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Experimental support for external Kubernetes resource scalers (for example, with KEDA ScaledObject API) using the `scale` subresource.
```

I wonder if we should format the subobject and subresource names distinctly?

Reviewer: I'm ok with that, but maybe we should use bolding?

Reviewer 2: I was thinking this section applies, but I'm never completely sure when it's not a clear case

<img width="752" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76950046/186357986-1b7d7737-cc5a-45ad-b5f9-63ce39ab5321.png">

Reviewer 3: - What is subresource? Can you share an example? Maybe `parameter` would also fit here?
- I'd go with `using KEDA` :D One idea per head :D 
- If you apply my suggestions of using hyphens, don't forget to apply it here, too.

Reviewer: It looks like subresource is a valid [Kubernetes solution](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#subresources). Therefore, I'd leave it as it is.

Reviewer 3: OK. Thank you for the link! :) 
Then only the other two bullet points stand.

Author: Subresource is a valid concept in a CRD. Typically the "status" attribute is a subresource https://book-v1.book.kubebuilder.io/basics/status_subresource.html

> The following versions of CustomResourceDefintions are deprecated:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following versions of CRDs are deprecated:
```

You used `CRD` only before but now you go with the full name. I'd switch it around. First, introduce an abbreviation/acronym and unfold it so that the reader knows what it means, then you're free to use the short version. 
I already included it in both my suggestions.

> * serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1/Function
> * serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1/GitRepository

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1/Function`
- `serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1/GitRepository`
```

These are "code" names for the CRDs, so they should be formatted as code. See the [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) for reference.

	• serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1/GitRepository

> No need to update your function templates immediately. We have installed a conversion webhook that will handle on-the-fly conversion between the deprecated v1alpha1 and the new v1alpha2 versions. This convenience must be considered temporary, and the automatic conversion will be removed after 6 months of depreciation grace period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no need to update your Function templates immediately. We have installed a conversion webhook that handles the conversion on the fly between the deprecated v1alpha1 and the new v1alpha2 versions. This convenience must be considered temporary, and the automatic conversion will be removed after 6 months depreciation period.
```

## Service Mesh

> ### Istio Sidecar Injection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Istio Sidecar injection
```

> You don't need to update your Function templates immediately. Kyma provides a conversion webhook that handles the conversion on the fly between the deprecated v1alpha1 and the new v1alpha2 versions. This automatic conversion is a temporary convenience; it will be removed after 6 months depreciation period.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You don't need to update your Function templates immediately. Kyma provides a conversion webhook that handles the conversion on the fly between the deprecated `v1alpha1` and the new `v1alpha2` versions. This automatic conversion is a temporary convenience; it will be removed after a 6-month depreciation period.
```

> There is no need to update your Function templates immediately. We have installed a conversion webhook that handles the conversion on the fly between the deprecated v1alpha1 and the new v1alpha2 versions. Consider this as a temporary convenience, as the automatic conversion will be removed after 6 months depreciation period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You don't need to update your Function templates immediately. Kyma provides a conversion webhook that handles the conversion on the fly between the deprecated v1alpha1 and the new v1alpha2 versions. This automatic conversion is a temporary tool, it will be removed after 6 months depreciation period.
```

> Starting with this Kyma version, new workloads no longer have Istio sidecars injected automatically, unless configured otherwise. To learn more, read about the [benefits of having your workload as a part of the Istio service mesh](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma/). See also the [Istio documentation on how to enable sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with this Kyma version, new workloads no longer have Istio sidecars injected by default; if you want automatic sidecar injection, you must enable it. Learn more about the [benefits of having your workload as a part of the Istio service mesh](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma/). See also the [Istio documentation on how to enable sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/). 
```

> Starting with this Kyma version, new workloads no longer have Istio sidecars injected by default; if you want automatic sidecar injection, you must enable it. Learn more about the [benefits of having your workload as a part of the Istio service mesh](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma/). See also the [Istio documentation on how to enable sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with this Kyma version, new workloads no longer have Istio sidecars injected by default. If you want automatic sidecar injection, you must [enable it](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/) yourself. Learn more about the [benefits of having your workload as a part of the Istio service mesh](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma/). 
```
I believe the last sentence is obsolete. If you link this to the word `enable`, which is used anyway, you can remove the last sentence.

> Apart from that, Kyma continues to update the sidecars of workloads that are part of the Istio service mesh.

Reviewer 3: Maybe `Despite the change` instead of `Apart from that`? WDYT?

> Apart from the described changes, Kyma continues to make sure that the workloads that are part of the Istio service mesh have sidecars up to date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apart from that, Kyma continues to keep the sidecars of workloads that are part of the Istio service mesh updatet.
```

> Starting with this Kyma version, new workloads no longer have Istio sidecars injected by default. If you want automatic sidecar injection, you must [enable it](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/) yourself. Learn more about the [benefits of having your workload as a part of the Istio service mesh](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma/). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with this Kyma version, new workloads no longer have Istio sidecars injected by default. If you want automatic sidecar injection, you must [enable it](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.6/04-operation-guides/operations/smsh-01-istio-enable-sidecar-injection/) yourself. Learn more about the [benefits of having your workload as a part of the Istio service mesh](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma/). 
```
"Not this link; that link, Maja..." Sorry... I think it makes sense to refer the user straight to the command. That document then contains the link to the Istio documentation. I didn't pay attention and thought that was what I suggested before.

Starting with this Kyma version, new workloads no longer have Istio sidecars injected by default; if you want automatic sidecar injection, you must enable it. Learn more about the [benefits of having your workload as a part of the Istio service mesh](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/01-overview/main-areas/service-mesh/smsh-03-istio-sidecars-in-kyma/). See also the [Istio documentation on how to enable sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/). 
  

> Apart from that, Kyma continues to keep the sidecars of workloads that are part of the Istio service mesh updated.

Reviewer 2: maybe we can simplify even more:

```suggestion
Apart from that, Kyma continues to update the sidecars of workloads that are part of the Istio service mesh.
```
